# DEPRECATED

This module is no longer maintained by StrongLoop/IBM.

We are encouraging the community to take the ownership of this module.
Please open an issue in https://github.com/strongloop/loopback if you
are willing to become the new maintainer.

See also https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/loopbackjs/w038RvqHeYI

---

#loopback-testing

**Utilities for testing LoopBack apps**

## overview

The following helpers are designed to generate [mocha] tests against
[LoopBack](http://strongloop.com/loopback) apps.

## install

1. `npm install loopback-testing --save-dev`
2. Assuming you started with a clean template/project generated by `slc loopback`
  1. If you have mocha installed as a global npm module that's great! Simply update `<your_project>/package.json` with:

    ```
    {
      ...
      "scripts": {
        ...
        "test": "mocha"
      }
    }
    ```
  2. Otherwise, you can utilize the mocha library within the `loopback-testing` testing module:

    ```
    {
      ...
      "scripts": {
        ...
        "test": "./node_modules/loopback-testing/node_modules/.bin/mocha"
      }
    }
    ```
3. Run `npm test` to execute any tests under the `test` directory.

## basic usage

Below is a simple LoopBack app.

```js
var loopback = require('loopback');
var app = loopback();
var Product = app.model('product');
Product.attachTo(loopback.memory());
```

Use the `loopback-testing` module to generate `mocha` tests.

```js
var lt = require('loopback-testing');
var assert = require('assert');
var app = require('../server/server.js'); //path to app.js or server.js

describe('/products', function() {
  lt.beforeEach.withApp(app);
  lt.describe.whenCalledRemotely('GET', '/products', function() {
    lt.it.shouldBeAllowed();
    it('should have statusCode 200', function() {
      assert.equal(this.res.statusCode, 200);
    });

    lt.beforeEach.givenModel('product');
    it('should respond with an array of products', function() {
      assert(Array.isArray(this.res.body));
    });
  });
});
```

## building test data

Use TestDataBuilder to build many Model instances in one async call. Specify
only properties relevant to your test, the builder will pre-fill remaining
required properties with sensible defaults.

```js
var TestDataBuilder = require('loopback-testing').TestDataBuilder;
var ref = TestDataBuilder.ref;

// The context object to hold the created models.
// You can use `this` in mocha test instead.
var context = {};

var ref = TestDataBuilder.ref;
new TestDataBuilder()
  .define('application', Application, {
    pushSettings: { stub: { } }
  })
  .define('device', Device, {
     // use the value of application's id
     // the value is resolved at build time
     appId: ref('application.id'),
     deviceType: 'android'
  })
  .define('notification', Notification)
  .buildTo(context, function(err) {
    // test models are available as
    //   context.application
    //   context.device
    //   context.notification
  });
```

## Function reference

LoopBack Testing (lt):
===

  * describe,
  * it,
  * beforeEach,
  * TestDataBuilder

lt.describe:
----

  * staticMethod,
  * instanceMethod,
  * whenCalledRemotely,
  * whenLoggedInAsUser,
  * whenLoggedInAsUserWithRole,
  * whenCalledByUser,
  * whenCalledByUserWithRole,
  * whenCalledAnonymously,
  * whenCalledUnauthenticated

lt.it:
----

  * shouldBeAllowed,
  * shouldBeDenied,
  * shouldNotBeFound,
  * shouldBeAllowedWhenCalledAnonymously,
  * shouldBeDeniedWhenCalledAnonymously,
  * shouldBeAllowedWhenCalledUnauthenticated,
  * shouldBeDeniedWhenCalledUnauthenticated,
  * shouldBeAllowedWhenCalledByUser,
  * shouldBeDeniedWhenCalledByUser,
  * shouldBeAllowedWhenCalledByUserWithRole,
  * shouldBeDeniedWhenCalledByUserWithRole

lt.beforeEach:
----

  * withApp,
  * withArgs,
  * givenModel,
  * givenUser,
  * givenUserWithRole,
  * givenLoggedInUser,
  * givenLoggedInUserWithRole,
  * givenAnUnauthenticatedToken,
  * givenAnAnonymousToken,

lt.TestDataBuilder:
----
Tagline: Build many Model instances in one async call.

  * ref (static method)
> Reference the value of a property from a model instance defined before.
>
> @param {string} path - Generally in the form '{name}.{property}', where {name}
is the name passed to `define()` and {property} is the name of
the property to use.

  * define (dynamic method)
> Define a new model instance.
>
> @param {string} name Name of the instance.
> `buildTo()` will save the instance created as context[name].
>
> @param {constructor} Model Model class/constructor.
>
> @param {Object.<string, Object>=} properties - Properties to set in the object.
> Intelligent default values are supplied by the builder for required properties not listed.
>
> @return TestDataBuilder (fluent interface)

  * buildTo (dynamic method)
> Asynchronously build all models defined via `define()` and save them in the supplied context object.
>
>  @param {Object.<string, Object>} context The context to object to populate.
>
>  @param {function(Error)} callback Callback.


